PETE LEPAGE: The CSS
contain property makes
rendering performance scream.
It's easier to collect
real user measurement
data with the
PerformanceObserver API.
The browser can now
progressively render
content served from
a service worker
with streamed HTTP responses,
and there's plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage
on the High Line.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 52.
When an element changes and
needs to be re-rendered,
the browser has to consider how
that single change may affect
all the other nodes in the DOM.
With the CSS contain property,
you can scope the changes
to only a portion of the DOM.
contain:layout can help reduce
the number of elements that may
need to be re-rendered
to just a handful.
contain:paint clips the
element and prevents
an element's children
from displaying outside
of the bounds.
contain:size means that the
element's children do not
affect the parent size.
contain:style means that style
changes won't get propagated
back up past the
containing element.
Check out Paul
Lewis's intro post
linked below for more details.
Collecting accurate, real
user measurement data
is critical to detecting
performance problems
and regressions that might
hurt your user experience.
Chrome 52 now supports the
PerformanceObserver API,
which enables a simple and
performant way to collect
performance data at runtime.
Instead of polling
for updates, you
can declare what metrics
you're interested in.
Then, the browser notifies
you when those new data
points become available.
Service workers can now
stream HTTP responses,
allowing the page
that made the request
to start working
with the response
as soon as the first
chunk of data's available.
Unlike fetch requests
that need to wait
until the entire
response is received,
stream responses can be
progressively rendered
as it's downloaded.
There's also support for
VAPID, an open standard
to authenticate your server
with a web push service.
Style sheets can now
specify alpha values
for colors using hex values
instead of the RGBA syntax.
And you can now experiment
with persistent storage
as an origin trial.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 52
for developers.
Check the description
for more details.
And if you want to stay
up to date with Chrome
and know what's coming,
click the Subscribe button
right up there.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 53 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]